# Portfolio for Computational Musicology

Topic: What does it mean to be a "workout" playlist? Find several examples of workout playlists on Spotify and comparable playlists without the workout label. Is there a measurable difference between the groups?

So far, I compared the following "workout" playlists: Beast Mode, Motivation Mix and Top Hits Workout. The "chill" playlists are: JAEL & CHILL, real good shit and Lo-Fi Beats. I combined all playlists using `rbind()`, and did all analyses for individual playlists using `group_by(playlist_name)`. Some means and standard deviations I wanted to calculate, contained "NA". Therefore I used the argument `na.rm = TRUE` while calculating the means and standard deviations.

There was no real difference in danceability, all means were about .65, and the standard deviations about .12. As measured by Spotify, the workout playlists score higher on energy *(M = 0.81, SD = 0.12)* than the chill playlists *(M = 0.45, SD = 0.17)*. This is not very surprising, since a workout playlist should motivate. Therefore a higher energy level might be more motivating! The chill playlists were, as measured by Spotify, much more acoustic *(M = 0.39, SD = 0.28)* than the workout playlists *(M = 0.10, SD = 0.13)*. This finding is also expected, assuming that acousticness lowers the degree of being suitable for a workout playlist. The same holds for instrumentalness: chill playlists *(M = 0.38, SD = 0.29)* score notably higher than workout playlists *(M = 0.05, SD = 0.10)*.
